# 1b12: Group Federation

NodeBB has elected to follow FEP 1b12 for Group Federation. Nomenclature-wise, the term "group" here refers to the content submitted by a collection of users, represented by the [`Group` Actor Type](https://www.w3.org/TR/activitystreams-vocabulary/#actor-types).

The proposal explicitly mentions "internet forums", and this concept is most analogous to both user groups and categories in NodeBB. In NodeBB, FEP 1b12 is implemented for **categories only**.

## Our implementation

Each category in NodeBB is potentially able to federate content outward to the fediverse. They identify themselves as `Group` actors, and can maintain follow relationships with other actors/remote-users.

Additionally, NodeBB categories can follow other `Group` actors. This special handling was created in order for categories across disparate forums (e.g. separate NodeBB instances, or even other AP-enabled forum software) to synchronize their content with each other.

### The handle

Each category is given a handle that can be used to reference it locally or remotely. Like users and user groups, they must be unique, and the default is a "slugified" variant of the category name (e.g. "Category About Cats" would have the default handle `category-about-cats`.)

### The announce

Whenever a user (local to the forum or remotely) posts content (new topic or reply), that category will federate an `Announce` activity to its followers, for that new post. This is analogous to an internet "share", and allows posted content to be more widely consumed by relevant parties.

There is no `Announce` federation for the [Uncategorized category](../../development/plugins/uncategorized.md).

## Direct address

Remote users may post new topics to a category by directly addressing their handle. In the contrived example above, a user may elect to post a new `Note` to `@category-about-cats@example.org`, and the category will capture that post and automatically slot it in the category.