# Internationalising your Plugin/Theme

You are free to write your plugin and/or theme in whatever language you'd like, although if you wish to support multiple languages, NodeBB has a language engine that you can utilise.

In this article, we'll be referring to *plugins*. Keep in mind that themes are also plugins, so the implementation is the same for both.

## Step 1: Directory layout of translations

To begin, let's define some language keys and translations! In your plugin, create a new directory to house your translations. Keep in mind that the structure of the files _inside_ this folder must match that of NodeBB itself: Each sub-directory is named after a language **key** (e.g. `en-GB`), and contains `.json` files housing the translations themselves.

``` bash
$ cd /path/to/my/plugin
$ mkdir -p languages/en-GB
$ mkdir -p languages/es
```

In the commands above, I've created my languages folder, with two languages, English (`en-GB`), and Spanish (`es`).

## Step 2: Add your translations

In the sub-directories created in Step 1, I'll create text files with a `.json` extension. These file will house the plugin's translations.

In `languages/en-GB/myplugin.json`:

``` json
{
    "greeting": "Hello there! How are you?"
}
```

In `languages/es/myplugin.json`:

``` json
{
    "greeting": "Hola! Como estás?"
}
```

You can name the file whatever you'd like, but keeping it something recognizable (e.g. related to your plugin) is ideal. You can also name a file the same name as an existing language file in NodeBB. NodeBB will automatically merge the two localisation sets together into a single set. For example, NodeBB contains a `user.json` file. You can also name your file `user.json` and you can call language strings from both files in your plugin/theme.

**Note**: Remember to change the name `myplugin` to something related to your plugin!

## Step 3: Tell NodeBB that you have language files to load

NodeBB won't automatically know you have translations to load, so we'll need to add a line to our `plugin.json` file to tell NodeBB to load our language files, and where those files reside.

Open up `plugin.json` and add a new property called `languages`:

``` json
{
    ...
    "languages": "languages",
    ...
}
```

The value for this property is the path to wherever your language files reside, _relative to the plugin's root folder_. In this case, I've placed my languages in a folder called `languages` directly in my plugin's root folder, so I just need to put in `languages`. If my languages were in a sub-folder called `public`, then the correct value here would be `public/languages`.

## Step 4: Use your translations in your plugin

There are a number of ways you can use your translations in your plugin:

### Server-side

In your server-side code, you can invoke the translation engine as follows:

``` js
var translator = require.main.require('./src/translator');

translator.translate('[[myplugin:greeting]]', function(translated) {
    console.log('Translated string:', translated);
});
```

**Note**: Server-side invocation will translate to server's default language in ACP settings: `http://<hostname>/admin/general/languages`

### Client-side

In the browser, you can invoke the translation engine as follows:

``` js
require(['translator'], function(translator) {
    translator.translate('[[myplugin:greeting]]', function(translated) {
        console.log('Translated string:', translated);
    });
});
```

**Note**: Client-side invocation will translate to the language in user settings: `http://<hostname>/user/<username>/settings`

### Templates

In your templates, you don't need to do anything special to invoke the translation engine, it is run through automatically, and parses any language strings matching the following syntax: `[[resource:key]]`. So for our plugin:

``` html
<p>[[myplugin:greeting]]</p>
```

## (Optional) Step 5: Tell NodeBB that a particular language is the default

NodeBB itself supports around 40 languages, so you couldn't possibly be expected to translate them into every language! To define a specific language as default, add the `defaultLang` property to your `plugin.json` file:

``` json
{
    ...
    "languages": "languages",
    "defaultLang": "es",
    ...
}
```

Now, if a user utilising a language not supported by your plugin loads a language resource for your plugin, they will see the Spanish translation, as it is the designated fallback language.
